Your pancreas is shaped like a fish.
It stretches across the back of your abdomen,
behind your stomach.
Many people know about the pancreas
in relation to diabetes,
because it makes the hormone insulin.
But the pancreas is a dual function organ
that makes digestive enzymes as well as hormones.
Once food is in your stomach,
it is churned and mixed with a highly acidic
gastric juice produced in the stomach lining.
This mixture moves into the small intestine,
where it mixes with juices from the pancreas and liver.
The juice produced by the pancreas
contains enzymes to further break down the food.
It also contains sodium bicarbonate,
which neutralizes acid in the
partially digested food from the stomach.
The pancreatic juice flows into a tube
called the pancreatic duct,
which joins another tube called the common bile duct.
The common bile duct also carries bile.
This digestive juice is produced by the liver
and stored in the gallbladder.
As food is dissolved by digestive juices,
it is mixed and pushed forward
into the small intestine
for further digestion and absorption.
Digested nutrients are absorbed
through the walls of the small intestine.
Solid waste products are pushed into the colon,
where water is removed
and they remain as feces
until expelled in a bowel movement.